Hey friends. I want to
thank our sponsor. Reagan, are
you struggling to replicate the
bugs and performance issues that
your customers are reporting, plug
Regan into your web and
mobile applications right now, and
diagnose problems in minutes rather
than hours, kiss goodbye. Having
to dig through log files
and relying on frustrated users
to report issues, make your
software development life so much
easier using Reagan's error, crash,
and performance monitoring tools. Every
software team can create flawless
software experiences for their customers
with Regan. Try it free
today@raygun.com. That's our a Y
G U n.com. This is
Scott Hanselman, this Hansel minutes
today. I'm talking with Tai
Tamara. He's the CEO of
panel data web sites, design
development shop out of New Jersey.
How are you, sir? Very
good. Great to be on
with you. So you and
I have a, a shared
kind of interest and that
is, you know, being productive,
right? I mean, as a
CEO of a company that
does develop and design websites,
you've got to juggle a
lot and you know, I
manage community for visual studio
and I work at Microsoft
and I'm juggling a lot.
How many emails do you
have in your inbox? Right?
No, I don't know. Right
now I get to zero
every morning, usually in the
morning I have maybe 20,
25, so I don't get
the volume that I know
a lot of people get,
but a lot of that
comes down to, you know,
our communication style. It can't
deliver where we have more
base camp messages and things
in other places. And it
also comes down to the
way that I communicate in
general, which is to try
to encourage, you know, longer,
more substantive, email communication. So,
so yeah, that's skipping ahead
a little bit to some
of the, some of the
tricks that I've learned over
the years, but yeah, I
definitely have a passion for,
for productivity that kind of
started as a necessity because
when I was just taking
on more and more stuff,
as I think a lot
of people find is their
careers evolve. And then especially
having children, it became critical
for me to figure out
my strategy and, and, you
know, get my act together.
No, you know, every company
is different. The company I
work at is very email
heavy. You know, you use
Slack, we use teams. I've
started to realize that all
of these are different inboxes,
right? Like you might say,
you only get 25 emails
in the morning. You know,
maybe I get probably maybe
a hundred, 150, but you
probably get a lot more
slacks and that's a kind
of an inbox as well.
There are multiple inboxes in
our lives. Yes, absolutely. I
think that's one of the
key things that people need
to understand is that a
true productivity strategy is something
that lets you consolidate all
of those things into one
place. Whether it's your kid
coming up to you with
a permission slip or a,
your car breaking down or
a, an email coming in
or a text message, all
of that needs to go
into a single consolidated location.
Otherwise you're absolutely going to
go insane trying to remember,
you know, what, what happened
in certain areas and parsing
that out into actions and,
you know, especially when it
comes to, should I do
X or should I do
Y that's so hard to,
to make a judgment on
when your responsibilities are distributed
among different systems. Yeah. I
think the, the thing that
helped me was the, the,
the recognition, the decision in
my own head, that there
was more than one inbox.
And then when we say
inbox, we, we may think
email, but you know, physical
bills that come in the
mail and we still get,
I still get mail. Like,
male's a thing you can't,
everyone likes to say that,
Oh, I've automated. Everything I've
already been at all my,
well, you know, every once
in a while, something physical
shows up, you need to
deal with it. That's, that's
an inbox as well. Yes,
absolutely. Or something is signed
or needs to be signed
or center notary Republic or
whatever. Oh my goodness. I
don't, I don't know if
you own your house. Yeah.
I mean, I have to
deal with property taxes and
physical things that come in
the mail. I have a
house, you realize how much
the rest of the economy
is still relies on fax
machines and lots of paper
that has to be very,
very particularly kind of taken
care of and transported from
place to place. And absolutely
cashier's checks in your hand
for a ungodly amounts of
money. And you're just like
scratching your, your eyes out,
thinking of the inefficiency as
a digital person, but that's
the world we live in.
And, you know, even if
you, you, you know, try
to streamline, you know, your,
your daily life, you are
also a part of other
people's lives and you're going
to need to be able
to interact with those folks
in a way that's convenient
for them. Yeah. I had
a person come over and
do some work on my
house yesterday and they would
take a check or cash
and, and, and that was
a thing. Right. And that
was, that was it. And,
and, and people might be
listening and saying, well, why
aren't they, why did they
take Stripe, frankly, they didn't
know Stripe exists. You know,
I don't even know if
their flip phone would run
Stripe, like right. Not everyone
has that Privilege. Right. It's
a comfort level thing, but
what's great is if you
have a sound productivity strategy
as sort of a digitally
minded person, you can convert
a lot of those inputs
into something that can be
digitally managed. And then you
can all the advantages of
that system or your, you
know, your philosophy or your
approach. But you're also still
like inter interfacing with the
rest of the world in
a, in a way that
is sensible to them. Because,
you know, if you try
to send that, who was
it, who was at your
house? So it was a
handy person. Yeah. So you
tried to send, send them
a link to your, you
know, online portal where they
can receive payment. I think
that's probably not going to
be too, too pleased. So
you need to be able
to, to act as the,
as the bus, if you
will, to get, get signal
from one place to the
other, and that's, you, you
can kind of be in
your own domain and have
things set up the way
that you want, but, but
still, still interface reasonably with,
with everyone else. I think
also the, when I first
started my productivity kind of
journey, which was my, you
know, that moment when you
say I'm overwhelmed was I
thought that what I needed
was a prescription. So I
would go and ask people
to tell me all about
their tools. Like tell me
what you use, but now
I've realized that it's not
about the tools. Like, I
don't want to know what
you tie use as a
tool. It's interesting, but the
fact that you set up
a system, your tool might
be to do dot text,
or it might be, you
know, a to do app
or Wunderlist or whatever. I
don't know. But it's, it's
the fact that your conscious,
I think, is what's important.
Yeah. It can be a
paper notebook or a series
of paper notebooks, you know,
stone tablets, if you want,
if you're, if you're good,
if, if that's your style,
go for it. Yeah, you're
right. The number one thing
is, is the fact that
you have a system. And
I think the system that
you have does need to
have certain characteristics and, you
know, to, to provide some
background. My personal strategy is
based heavily off the getting
things done methodology by David Allen.
And I'm, I'm very much,
you know, inspired by, by
his writing and the, the
work that their company has
done. And so fundamentally the
way that you want your
system to be, which is
sort of your, your database,
your repository of everything that
you need to do, and
all the commitments you've made,
and even things you want
to do that you don't
need to do. You need
that to be instantly accessible
wherever you are. That's a,
that's a key role. So
like, if you're a paper
person, you need to at
least make sure that, you
know, you have one of
your notebooks on you at
all times, because you know,
how many times have you
been in that situation where
you get a phone call
or you are in a
conversation with someone and they
say, you know, let's just
say they recommend a book.
You really want to read
that book. If you just
try to remember all of
those things for the rest
of your life, not only
is your head going to
be full of stuff that
you might not be relevant
to you at any given
moment, but you're going to
let a lot of things
slip through the cracks. So
you need to be able
to externalize your memory so
that you're never reliant just
on being able to, you
know, kind of keep up
with all the input, but
you have these, these tools.
And we, you know, we
have tools in, in this,
this day and age, and
we don't have to rely
on our brains as a,
as a storage mechanism. And
I think once you, once
you make that sort of
mental switch to think that
your brain is about processing
information, not storing information theme
of the GTD methodology, that
is revolutionary, you, you, you
externalize all of your tracking
and your monitoring of those
commitments, and you just get
to focus your brainpower on
solving your problems on being
creative on getting, you know,
literally getting things done. That's,
that's a switch for a
lot of people. That is
a really interesting and cool
way to think about it.
The, the idea that I
am good at processing, I'm
not good at, at keeping
a lot of information in
high fidelity, right? Yeah. Wrote,
wrote memorization is also not
fun. Well, checking boxes on
to do list is fun.
Yes, Yes, yes. And being
up until two in the
morning, going through all the
things in your head that
you're trying not to forget
that you have to do
tomorrow is that's a painful
place as well. And it's
also a painful place when
you do drop the ball.
And you do forget that,
you know, birthday or that,
that, you know, thing you
were supposed to pick up
before you got home because
someone's coming over. So, you
know, I think it's, it's
pivotal. If you want to,
if you want to grow,
if you want to achieve,
you know, big, complicated things
in the world, whatever that
is, it's pivotal that you
sit down and establish the,
the method that you're going
to use to process all
of these inputs and these
commitments and, and actually be
accountable to all of them.
And one great thing there
is if you create a
system and you establish your
life in a way that
you know that you're going
to get to all of
your commitments, and that's incredibly
powerful, and it's powerful for
your relationships because people can
count on you more, but
it's also powerful for yourself
because like I remember going
back all the way to
third grade, I used to
be, you know, lying in
bed, thinking of the homework
that I hadn't done and
how I was going to
have to figure out how
to, you know, get out
of it or weasel around
it tomorrow, or squeeze it
in at lunch or something
like that. And that, that
like creeping sense of dread
in the back of your
head, that am I doing
everything that I needed to
have I prepared properly? Have
I remembered everything? That's a
huge mental drag. And then
if you're a creative person,
especially like if you're trying
to make music or pain
or, you know, teach people
or whatever you're trying to
do, being able to just
totally be in the moment,
know that all of your
commitments are taken care of
that everything's going to happen.
And that you're, you are
keeping your promises to the
outside world that makes you
feel better about yourself. And
it makes it frees you
up to be able to
do it. Yeah. The word
that I have historically used
in my talks on productivity
is the psychic weight. Oh,
yes. Of the things like
people don't realize, like, I
don't know about you, but
I have multiple monitors. And
on one of those monitors,
I like to keep the
process Explorer or the task
manager running. And I tend
to short by CPU. And
I've done that so long
that I bet you that
there's one in my head,
there's a task manager in
my head. You run top
all day. I run top
or H H top. I
mean, I'm not a Savage,
right. You know, a sorted
by CPU. Yeah, exactly. Sorted
by CPU. And I could
tell you when I don't
have a Mino my system
with me, maybe I don't
have my phone, or I
fail to write something down.
The psychic weight is 3%,
5%, 7%, you know, it's
that, it's that little process
running in the background. You're
like, what is it that
you're doing? And, you know,
if you kill dash nine,
that process, you're probably not
going to end up bringing
milk home, or you're going
to forget something important. And
then you'll have let someone
down. Maybe it's a small
thing. Like you didn't bring
milk and you don't have
milk for your teeth. Or
maybe it's a big thing.
Like you forgot to meet
with the vice president at
work. And you're a no
show. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. It
doesn't take many of those
moments to kind of convince
people that, you know, it's
time to make a switch.
I, you know, I talked
to people about this and
a lot of people kind
of naturally put together a
methodology that, that kind of
works enough, you know? And
that's, that's the necessity part
is that I think most
people, if they're trying to
do something creative or, or
difficult, especially in technology, they're
going to have to adapt
to a certain degree, but
where, where you really take
it to the next level
is being deliberate about the
way that you want that
system to function. And the,
the, you know, the manner
in which you plan to,
to work from it and
process it. And those are
things, you know, if you're
interested in this topic that
get the book, getting things
done is, is excellent. There's
also, you know, David, Allen's
been all over the place
doing Ted talks and such,
and you can find a
lot of resources on that.
And there's a lot of
other strategies available as well.
But the number one thing
is that you, you need
to learn how you're going
to live with your system,
because if you just, you
know, just establishing where you're
going to keep all your
crap is not going to
get the crap, you know,
dealt with. So that's, that's
the sort of second pillar
of this is that, you
know, first of all, you
need a system, but second
of all, you need a
relationship with that system. You
know, what, what are you
going to do on a
daily, weekly, monthly, yearly basis
to ensure that that system
is up to date and,
and that it parallels accurately
your priorities within your life.
Hey, friends, summers longer days
and slower pace. Invite us
to pick up a book,
follow our questions and try
our hand at something new.
The work of modern software
developers is evolving in ways
that are both challenging and
rewarding. As a developer, it's
essential that you cultivate a
security mindset and to help
we've put together a collection
of information, security books, podcasts,
blogs, and hands on exercises
recommended by Vera coders, across
our development security and product
teams from a just published
page Turner to classic frac
articles. There's something here for
everyone who is interested in
becoming more security minded. So
dip your toes in, or
take a deep dive visit
www dot Vira code. That's
V R a code.com/reading that's
code.com/reading. Do you think that
people should learn that should
be taught? This is this
something that should be a
class because I'm looking at
my 13 year old, who
is going to be going
into high school soon and
is doing a mediocre job
at managing his homework and
his life. I'm looking at
my nephew who just graduated
from high school. And frankly,
I'm amazed that he pulled
it off with, with the
scheduling systems that they have.
And then my niece, who
is now out of college
and going into the workplace.
So I've got these kinds
of different people going from
different stages of their life.
And none of them really
seem to have formal systems.
And, you know, with all
due respect to them, they've
tended to miss things. They
forget there's a party today,
and they forgot that there
was a, you know, it's
the homework is the night
before, or I didn't realize
we were going to meet
today. I thought that was
Tuesday. And you can't just
say, Hey, young person, why
don't you use Google calendar?
This is larger. I don't
remember ever learning organizational theory
in school. It's absurd. Yeah.
A thousand percent. It should
be a class. I mean,
add that to the list
of things that ought to
be a class like changing
a tire, changing a diaper,
doing your taxes. It should
all be a class. Absolutely.
Yes. It should be delight
life skills class. I mean,
I'm sure like in the,
in the age of a
shop class, you know, maybe
this was more top of
mind, you know, academically, but
yeah, I, I think absolutely.
And one thing you can
do is if you're a
part of an institution, like
let's say you're a teacher
and you're dealing with high
schoolers, one thing you can
help them do is learn
how to manage the commitments
that they make to you.
You know? So if you
say that a certain assignments
due on a certain day,
or you, you give a
kid a, a mandate to
bring you some research by
a certain date or whatever,
ask them, you know, how
do you plan to do
that? What are you gonna,
what are you going to
change or implement in your
life so that you make
sure that that's going to
happen? You know, and you're
going to have your exceptional
kids who just, you know,
actually have the brain power
to keep things in their
mind and also execute things
at a high level, which
is, you know, it's never
me. That is not me
either. Yeah. I don't think
this is about being born
this way. Like, this is
something that is absolutely taught,
you know, Taught and it's,
it's, it's vital. I think
if you were able to,
to introduce that, even just
the thought that like, yeah,
maybe I need something to
keep track of all this
into the life of a,
of a young person that
that's vital. And then, you
know, as you mentioned, you,
we have people coming out
of college who have never
really had to deal with,
you know, capital R capital
L real life and all
the bills coming in and
all the commitments and all
the relationships that are, that
are a part of being
an adult. And, and, you
know, as a, an employer,
I think one major thing
you can do is, is
try to evangelize and communicate
these ideas within your organization,
because not only are your
people going to improve in,
you know, productivity, nominally, but
more importantly, they're going to
feel a sense of peace
in their life because they,
they feel that they're, they
have their, their act together
and that's gonna, that's gonna
reflect incredibly well on a,
you know, on, on the
attitude and the, the, the
manner in which the work
gets done when they're actually
at work. You know, if
they feel that their commitments
at home are taken care
of, or at least that
they're, they're logged and ready
to be worked on when
needed, that's going to free
people up mentally. So, yeah,
I think it's a vital
amenity in the, in the
21st century for, for employers
to encourage this kind of
thinking with their people, because
you're just going to get
so much more, you know,
refreshed and energized staff, if
you're able to, to emphasize
a lot of these principles.
And a lot of these
principles, as you've mentioned, have
been talked about whether it
be David, Allen's getting things
done, or Stephen Covey's seven
habits of highly effective people.
These, these are, you know,
productivity is a well known
and understood science, certainly a
billion dollar business. But what
I think you and I
are talking about is really
the philosophy of not letting
life happen to you by
default, right? If you simply
accept the defaults, then you're
going to have a challenge.
But if you can somehow
be given the tools can
be taught to sit down,
define work, and execute on
work. Like on my list,
when I'm looking at my
to do list right here,
it's got some work stuff,
move this to the virtual
machine, set up this network,
buy dirt. I need to
buy dirt. And I've actually
using my little system here.
Cause I've got it in
a reminder tool that when
I leave the house, it
will say, Hey, don't forget
to buy dirt. As I
leave the geo fence of
my house. And that's an,
that's a nerd detail. But
when I explained it to
nontechnical spouse and said, Hey,
you know that you can
tell your personal assistant, remind
me to buy dirt when
I leave here. And they
were like game changer, game
changer, or suddenly I'm getting
things done. Yeah, Absolutely. So
that, that so many good
points there, the first point
you made about not letting
your life happen to you,
I think that's, that's a
vital turning point as well.
And I think that, you
know, that really well pertains
to the topic of young
people, because I think young
people are used to being
told, you know, be here
at this time, get this
done by then. And then
you're out in a, in,
in the world and you
have situations where, you know,
no one's going to be
nagging you. No, one's going
to be reminding you that,
you know, you really need
to, to hand this in
by a certain date. And
if something's late, you know,
if you miss the train,
you miss the train. If
you, if you missed that
flight, you missed that flight
too bad. So I think
that's, that's something that's really
pivotal to instill in people
is that, you know, you,
you are in charge of
the commitments you make, but
you're also in charge of
whether you, you actually fulfill
those or not. And you're
going to feel so much
more inner harmony and less
psychic weight as you put
it. If you are accurately
and consistently delivering on the
promises that you make to
the world, you need to,
you need to look at
your life as something that
you're actively constructing and not
something that, that just kind
of occurs. And I'm blanking
on the other, the fine,
insightful thing that you said
at the end, please from
it. That's okay. I think
we both agree Though that
the definition of work and
some applying, some things like
the getting things done, you
know, do it drop it,
delegated to for it. I'm
going to make sure we
have links in the show
notes to all these kinds
of things you and I
agree on, on philosophy. Let's
compare notes on, on tools
though, because I think that
the other thing is don't
take, and this is for
the listener. Don't take my
word for it. Don't take
Ty's word for it. Try
a tool if it makes
you happy, drop it. Like
the great thing about advice
is you don't have to
take it. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely.
And you know, in speaking
about our tools, I think
we can kind of contextualize
that for people to like,
yeah, what is it about
this that works for us
in particular? I started with
my, you know, when I
was overwhelmed in the, you
know, in the early days
it was to do dot
text on my desktop and
that graduated to a Palm
pilot that I would carry
in my pocket everywhere, which
graduated too early. I'm living,
you know how I'm living?
I know your lifestyle. Yeah.
That's true. Yeah. So, you
know, Palm pilot, and then
I graduated to, you know,
the reminders list on my
iPhone. And then I realized
what the reminders list on
my iPhone, that it wasn't
everywhere. That the thing that
you stated it has to
be everywhere. I use it
still sometimes, but I ended
up graduating. I use Microsoft
to do which, which I
was, I would say I
was initially dismissive of. I
was like, okay. I mean,
Microsoft has a to do
app. I don't really care,
but it's got an iPhone
app. It's got a Mac
app, it's got a windows
app. It synchronizes everywhere. And
if I flag an email,
it shows up as a,
to do. If someone assigns
me a task, it shows
up and to do so,
it is everywhere. And that
it is the ever presence
of it. That was what
I needed for at least
my list of to do's.
And then that plus Dropbox
puts the data wherever I'm
at, because Dropbox is on
my, my Apple devices at
my windows devices. And I
would say Microsoft to do
plus Dropbox has been everything
I've needed so far. Right,
right. That's great. So my
primary system is in OmniFocus,
which is a outline of,
of, of tools for, for
productivity. And so basically every
single commitment in my life
goes into OmniFocus as a,
to do. And then from
there, I process that into
the different buckets and, and
contexts in which I can,
I, I will, will be.
And that's a, that's a
pivotal step that I didn't
get to touch on yet.
Yeah. Context. What about what,
what's the context? Yeah. So
a context is something you
need in order to accomplish
a certain task. So if
you have buy dirt, your
context, there is a, you
know, depends on how you
live. In my case, I
work at home. I'm not
usually in the car, so
that situation I would put
car. And so I have
a category of contexts that
are, that are equipment and
the car is one of
those things. It's not always
at home. Usually my wife
has it when it's here
and I have the chance
to, you know, go to
home Depot and get the
dirt. That's, that's the, the
tool that I'm going to
need to make that happen,
but you can also have
contexts that represent other people.
So I might have a
Scott context for, you know,
when, when we're chatting, these
are some things that I
want to bring up with
you, or I might have
a con you know, I've
I've context for my children.
You know, I have, I
have things that I need
to need to remind them
of, or talk to them
about or help prepare them
for. And I need them
there in order to have
that conversation, right. So contexts
are, are key because what
that lets you do is
if you take all of
that input, everything that you
need to do, and you
split that up into the
buckets and into buckets, according
to what you need in
order to finish them, then
all you need to do
to look for something productive
to do is go to
the appropriate bucket. So if
you're at the doctor's office
and you have 10 minutes,
well, what do you have?
You have your phone. So
look in your phone context,
look at all the things
that you previously have designated.
These are things that I
can accomplish with just my
phone or when you're, you
know, I just mentioned, you
know, my context with my
kids, if I'm, you know,
if we have a, a
nice walk home or we're
in the car, I know
that I can just take
a quick glance at my
system. I know the, you
know, two or three things
that I wanted to chat
with them about. So I
can make sure that when
that resource is available or
that that person is available,
that I'm taking full advantage
and I'm doing things that
I can uniquely do in
that situation. So yeah, when
you're, when you're in front
of your computer at your
desk, you don't want to
be doing things that you
could be doing at the
doctor's office. You know what
I mean? You want to
be doing things that you
can uniquely do in that
situation, with the tools you
have available and push the
rest of it off until
other situations. So that overall
within the course of your
day, you're getting more out
of your day, Right? And
that context can be a
place like, you know, shopping
or in standing in line.
It can be a thing.
Like I have my phone,
I have my laptop, or
it could be a Headspace.
If there's a thing that
you can't do until unless
your context is, you know,
calm or, you know, free
time or whatever. Like if
you're working on the great
American novel, you need to
be in a certain head
space. That can be a
kind of context as well.
If a two in that
vein, which I find very
helpful one is when I
feel creative. So when I,
when I feel like I
can, I can knock something
out, you know, if you
do any writing or, you
know, speaking things like that,
sometimes a given article will
take you all day and
sometimes it'll take you an
hour and it's really hard
to predict kind of when
that Headspace is going to
happen, at least for me.
So I love having that,
that context because if I,
if I have energy, if
I have a little short
block of time, I know
that there's something that requires
my focus and creativity that
I can, that I can
do probably much faster than
I will be able to
in a different place. Like
an airplane for instance, is
a great example. That's, that's
a wonderful situation for your
creative context. The other context
I have for Headspace is
tired mode. So when I'm
dragging at the end of
the day, you know, it's
getting to five o'clock or
whatever. I still have another
20 minutes before my kids
are home and I'm going
to be giving them dinner
or whatever, but I, I
still have a window of
time where I've got my
computer, but I'm shot, you
know, it's the end of
the day, what can I
do? So this is a
simpler emails, you know, following
up on things, remembering to
just check in or do
research or, you know, just
brainstorm something. Those are perfect
things for your, for your
tired context. And that, that
lets you get the maximum
out of those moments when
you're not feeling your best.
And what you're doing there
is you're, since you are
taking that time to take
care of those tasks, those
tasks aren't getting in the
way, when you do have
more energy. Hmm. It sounds
to me like you all,
you, you, you did this
on your own. Do you
think you were always this
way or did someone teach
you? So I was mostly
self directed in this regard,
as I mentioned, you know,
mostly out of, out of
necessity, just having a lot
on my plate and having
to figure out ways to,
to, you know, process all
of that. I would say
the, the getting things done
book was pretty pivotal. I
mean, I think probably the
way I found it was
through articles online, just reading
up on different to do
list strategies like you, I,
I think I started with
text files or, you know,
very simple applications, sort of
like one access to do
lists and then kind of
advanced into, into thinking in
a more GTD aligned manner
and building up my tool
set. So it was a
pretty slow process. And the,
the other thing I would
say with GTD in particular
is that I got on
it and I was using
it for about a year.
And then I really learned
how to use it really,
really took me. It took
me probably a year, year
and a half before I
went from just like nominally
applying these ideas to really
relying on it in my
life. And that was a
big turning point because that
was where I really started
to trust the system and
think that, you know, I,
if I was holding something
in my head, I started
to get that sense that,
Nope, this is wrong. You
know, something's wrong about the
situation I have to have
to deal with it. So
yeah. Mostly self directed. Yeah.
I think the acknowledgement though,
like what do they say?
Step one is realizing you
have a problem. Yeah, absolutely.
And you know, speaking to
your point about with, with
kids. So I think it's
a gift that I really
look forward to giving to
them is a framework to
think about their life. You
know, that, as you said,
it's not attached to a
software tool. It's not attached
to any particular tactic. It's
a way of thinking about
your life. And people often
think, Oh, you know, productivity
is for work. Productivity means
cranking out more widgets during
your day than, than the
other person. And that it's
thereby sort of it would,
would, would capitalistic be too
much Mister. Well, I think
that the point isn't to
optimize for production yes. Exact
point is to optimize for
what you want to optimize
for. Yeah. There's a, there's
a famous quote. And I
actually talk about it in
my productivity. Talk my own
talk where a gentleman says,
if, if, if something in
my life is not making
me money, then it's it's
out. So I, I scratch
that part about money out.
And I said, if it's
not underscore where there's a
blank space, if it's not
whatever where whatever is the
thing that you care about.
If it's not blank, helping
me spend time with my
family, if it's not helping
me get, you know, build
my business. If it's not
helping me spend time with
my, you know, sick grandparents,
whatever the thing is that
you care about should be
the thing you're optimizing for.
So when you say, you
know, you have that feeling,
when you ask a friend,
you're like, how do you
have so many hours in
a day? I don't know
how you get so much
done. It's very likely that
it is not that they
it's intentionality. It is the
intentional illness of it. And
this can be the same,
whether you're a computer person
or whether you're working the
fryer later at, at McDonald's,
the productive people. They, you
know, we have, we have
privilege and that we can
make these tools. But when
I didn't have privileges, when
I didn't have money, I
was doing a lot of
this work in a, in
a, in a folded, a
folded piece of paper. Yeah.
And if you, if you
are working the fryer later,
you know, what are you
trying to do after that?
Yeah, Exactly. Because you're going
to school at night, You
should be listening to audio
books, you know, while you're
at, Probably not while you're
on the fries, but yeah,
I hear you one year,
one year, That's fine. That's,
that's not a health and
safety concern, but yeah, it's,
it's finding those, those, those
advantages. And that's where I
think people, people get it
a little bit wrong is
they think that anything to
do with productivity means doing
more work and being more.
And that's exactly precisely the
opposite. It's that if you
optimize the things you have
to do within your day,
that gives you more time
for the things you want
to do in your day.
That's really, really important. I
think that's even where we
should end on that. Because
what you're saying is you
get in, you do the
thing and you get out.
Yep. And you don't spend
time on Facebook and you
don't waste time. You know,
if you're in a cab,
you're getting the, the, if
let's say you have eight
hours of work to do
in a day, if you
can sneak in more of
that eight hours into the,
you know, time that you
have the time window that
you have to do your
work, what a quote that
is going to leave you
time at the end of
the day, you might be
done an hour earlier than
you thought you might be
able to go, you know,
go to that soccer practice
that you thought you weren't
going to make, or put
time into that book, or,
you know, write that song
that you've been thinking about.
That's been rattling around in
your head. You know, you,
you just have to imagine
most of us have so
little time, you know, I've
got I've, I've really got
a couple hours at the
end of the day where
I can really just hang
out and do what I'm
interested in. So if I
can squeeze in an extra
hour, an extra two hours,
that's increasing the amount of
actual free time that I
have by a huge percentage.
Exactly. Everybody has this time,
somewhere in their life. And
it's just about setting up
a system and devoting the
upfront costs of setting that
up in order to be
so much more free and
available for the things you
want to do. Right. And
it's not, we're not trying
to make people feel guilty
if they're not productive. Because
remember, remember when we said
a moment ago, it's not
about making money or being
productive. It's about optimizing for
what you want. So to
be clear, if binge watching
a show on Netflix, feed
your spirit and you want
to do it, do it,
you should do it, but
you do it intentionally. You
shouldn't just accidentally watch. Oh,
I wish I was supposed
to do this thing for
work. And I accidentally watched
eight hours of Netflix. Yeah,
that's a problem. But I'm
going to treat myself and
this weekend, I'm going to
watch this Netflix show and
I don't feel bad at
all. Exactly. That's the Headspace
that you want to be
in. Is that not feeling
good at all? Yeah, absolutely.
Fantastic. Well, thank you so
much. Ty. Fujimura CEO of
cantilever. You can check them
out. Can't delever, C a
N T I L E
V r.co. Check them out.
They build websites and design
and can solve your problems.
And I appreciate you solving
a few of mine today.
Ty. Thank you so much,
Scott. It was a pleasure.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .